update install instructions (#118)
iter8-tools/docs: docs/user-guide/topics/routemap.md

---
template: main.html
---

# Routemaps

> A _routemap_ contains a description of each version of an application and may contain one or more routing templates. The description of versions is used by Iter8 to identify which versions of the application are available at any moment. Whenever versions become available or disappear, any routing templates are applied allowing the routing to be automatically reconfigured.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A _routemap_ contains a description of each version of an application and may contain one or more routing templates. The description of versions is used by Iter8 to identify which versions of the application are available at any moment. Whenever versions become available or disappear, any routing templates that were previously applied will be automatically reconfigured.
```

## Version list

> A version is a list of resources that, when available and ready, indicate that the version is available. For example, the following describes a application with 2 versions. In this case, each version has a `Service` and a `Deployment` object. In one version, each has the name `httpbin-0`; in the other, `httpbin-1`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A version is a list of resources that, when available and ready, indicate that the version is available. For example, the following describes a application with two versions. In this case, each version has a `Service` and a `Deployment`. In one version, they are named `httpbin-0`, and in the other, `httpbin-1`:
```

The usage of each is different in the two sentences. Better not to use it again

```yaml
versions:
- resources:
  - gvrShort: svc
    name: httpbin-0
    namespace: default
  - gvrShort: deploy
    name: httpbin-0
    namespace: default
- resources:
  - gvrShort: svc
    name: httpbin-1
    namespace: default
  - gvrShort: deploy
    name: httpbin-1
    namespace: default
```

> Note that the resources types are specified using a short name. In this example, `svc` and `deploy`. A short name is used to simplify the specification of the resources in a version. A mapping of short name to Kubernetes Group, Version, Resource is captured in the configuration of the Iter8 controller. This set can be [extended](extensions.md) to include any types including custom resources; that is, those defined by a CRD.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that the resources types are specified using a short name. In this example, `svc` and `deploy`. A short name is used to simplify the specification of the resources in a version. A mapping of short name to Kubernetes group, version, resource is captured in the configuration of the Iter8 controller. This set can be [extended](extensions.md) to include any types including custom resources; that is, those defined by a CRD.
```

A version may optionally specify an integer `weight` indicating the proportion of traffic that should be sent to this version relative to other versions.

## Routing templates

> A routing template is a go template that is applied each time a version becomes available goes away. Multiple templates can be defined/applied.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A routing template is a Go template that is applied each time a new version becomes available. Multiple templates can be defined/applied.
```

I'm not sure if I understand the first sentence

```yaml
blue-green:
  gvrShort: vs
  template: |
    apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1beta1
    kind: VirtualService
    metadata:
      name: httpbin
    spec:
      gateways:
      - mm-gateway
      - mesh
      hosts:
      - httpbin.default
      - httpbin.default.svc
      - httpbin.default.svc.cluster.local
      http:
      - route:
        # primary version
        - destination:
            host: httpbin-0.default.svc.cluster.local
          {{- if gt (index .Weights 1) 0 }}
          weight: {{ index .Weights 0 }}
          {{- end }}
          headers:
            response:
              add:
                app-version: httpbin-0
        # other versions
        {{- if gt (index .Weights 1) 0 }}
        - destination:
            host: httpbin-1.default.svc.cluster.local
          weight: {{ index .Weights 1 }}
          headers:
            response:
              add:
                app-version: httpbin-1
        {{- end }}
```

## Implementation

A routemap is implemented as an immutable `ConfigMap` with the following labels:
- `iter8.tools/kind` with value `routemap`
- `iter8.tools/version` with value corresponding the version of the controller being used

> The list of versions and routing templates are stored as stringified yaml.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The list of versions and routing templates are stored as stringified YAML.
```
